# Noori Nastaleeq Fonts For Ms Word
  
but they still show up like this in firefox 
 
while in Google chrome they look a little bit better than Firefox but still not actually as they should 
 
I did try to search before posting here and all I was able to find were those ttf-urdufonts in the AUR but those don't seem to work. I did find other urdu fonts ttf-jameel-noori-nastaleeq which doesn't even install as the source is no longer working this is the error I get when I try to build the ttf-jameel-noori-nastaleeq fonts
 
Hi, I am using Gnome, and yes I have tried Jameel Noori Nastaleeq as well as ttf-urdufonts non of them seem to be working Idk what am I doing wrong but I even tried to change the fonts from the settings of firefox but still no effect.

 
**Download ✦✦✦ [https://onsowinmu.blogspot.com/?um=2A0Tbj](https://onsowinmu.blogspot.com/?um=2A0Tbj)**


 
***Nastaliq*** (/ˌnstəˈliːk, ˈnstəliːk/;[2] نستعلیق, .mw-parser-output .IPA-label-smallfont-size:85%.mw-parser-output .references .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .infobox .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .navbox .IPA-label-smallfont-size:100%Persian: [nstʰʔliːq]; Urdu: [nəst̪ɑːliːq]), also romanized as ***Nastaʿlīq*** or ***Nastaleeq***, is one of the main calligraphic hands used to write the Perso-Arabic script and it is used for some Indo-Iranian languages, predominantly Classical Persian, Kashmiri, Punjabi (Shahmukhi) and Urdu. It is often used also for Ottoman Turkish poetry, but rarely for Arabic. *Nastaliq* developed in Iran from *naskh* beginning in the 13th century[3][4] and remains widely used in Iran, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, and other countries for written poetry and as a form of art.[5]
 
It must be known that *nastaʿliq* is derived from *naskh*. Some Shirazi [scribes] modified it [naskh] by taking out the flattened [letter] *kaf* and straight bottom part of [the letters] *sin*, *lam* and *nun*. From other scripts they then brought in a curved *sin* and stretched forms and introduced variations in the thickness of the line. So a new script was created, to be named *nastaʿliq*. After a while Tabrizi [scribes] modified what Shirazi [scribes] had created by gradually rendering it thinner and defining its canons, until the time when Khwaja Mir ʿAli Tabrizi brought this script to perfection.[7]
 
Thus, "our earliest written source also credits Shirazi scribes with the development of *nastaʿliq* and Mir ʿAli Tabrizi with its canonization."[7] The picture of origin of *nastaliq* presented by Elaine Wright was further complicated by studies of Francis Richard, who on the basis of some manuscripts from Tabriz argued that its early evolution was not confined to Shiraz.[7] Finally, many authors point out that development of *nastaʿliq* was a process which takes a few centuries. For example, Gholam-Hosayn Yusofi, Ali Alparslan and Sheila Blair recognize gradual shift towards *nastaʿliq* in some 13th-century manuscripts.[4][8][9] Hamid Reza Afsari traces first elements of the style in 11th-century copies of Persian translations of the Qur'an.[10]
 
The most famous calligrapher of the next generation in eastern lands was Mir Ali Heravi (d. 1544), who was master of *nastaliq*, especially renowned for his calligraphic specimens (*qitʿa*). The eastern style of *nastaliq* became the predominant style in western Iran, as artists gravitated to work in Safavid royal scriptorium. The most famous of these calligraphers working for the court in Tabriz was Shah Mahmud Nishapuri (d. 1564/1565), known especially for the unusual choice of *nastaliq* as a script used for the copy of the Qur'an.[14] Its apogeum *nastaliq* achieved in writings of Mir Emad Hassani (d. 1615), "whose style was the model in the following centuries."[10] Mir Emad's successors in the 17th and 18th centuries had developed a more elongated style of *nastaliq*, with wider spaces between words. Mirza Mohammad Reza Kalhor (d. 1892), the most important calligrapher of the 19th century, reintroduced the more compact style, writing words on a smaller scale in a single motion. In the 19th century *nastaliq* was also adopted in Iran for lithographed books.[15] In the 20th century, "the use of *nastaliq* declined. After World War II, however, interest in calligraphy and above all in *nastaliq* revived, and some outstandingly able masters of the art have since then emerged."[4]
 
*Nastaliq* was also adopted in Ottoman Empire, which has always had strong cultural ties to Iran. Here it was known as *taliq* (Turkish *talik*), which should not be confused with Persian *taliq script*. First Iranian calligraphers who brought *nastaliq* to Ottoman lands, like Asadullah Kirmani (d. 1488), belonged to the western tradition. But relatively early Ottoman calligraphers adopted eastern style of *nastaliq*. In 17th century, student of Mir Emad, Darvish Abdi Bokharai (d. 1647), transplanted his style to Istanbul. The greatest master of *nastaliq* in 18th century was Mehmed Yasari (d. 1798), who closely followed Mir Emad. This tradition was further developed by son of Yasari, Mustafa Izzet (d. 1849), who was a real founder of distinct Ottoman school of *nastaliq*. He introduced new and precise proportions of the script, different than in Iranian tradition. The most important member of this school in the second half of the 19th century was Sami Efendi (d. 1912), who taught many famous practitioners of *nastaliq*, like Mehmed Nazif Bey (d. 1913), Mehmed Hulusi Yazgan (d. 1940) and Necmeddin Okyay (d. 1976). The specialty of Ottoman school was *cel nastaliq* used in inscriptions and mosque plates.[18][16][19]
 
*Shekasteh* or *Shekasteh Nastaliq* (Persian: شکسته نستعلیق, شکسته نستعلیق, "cursive Nastaliq" or literally "broken Nastaliq") style is a "streamlined" form of Nastaliq.[20] Its development is connected with the fact that "the increasing use of nastaʿlīq and consequent need to write it quickly exposed it to a process of gradual attrition."[4] The *shekasteh nastaliq* emerged in the early 17th century and differed from proper *nastaliq* only in so far as some of the letters were shrunk (shekasteh, lit. "broken") and detached letters and words were sometimes joined.[4] These unauthorized connections "mean that calligraphers can write *shekasteh* faster than any other script."[21] Manuscripts from this early period show signs of the influence of *shekasteh taliq*; while having the appearance of a shrunken form of nastaliq, they also contain features of *taliq* "due to their being written by scribes who had been trained in taʿlīq."[4] *Shekasteh nastaliq* (usually shortened to simply *skehasteh*), being more easily legible than *taliq* gradually replaced the latter as the script of decrees and documents. Later, it also came into use for writing prose and poetry.[4][21]

The added frills made *shekasteh* increasingly difficult to read and it remained the script of documents and decrees, "while *nastaʿliq* retained its pre-eminence as the main calligraphic style." The need for simplification of *shekasteh* resulted in development of secretarial style (*shekasteh-ye tahriri*) by writers like Adib-al-Mamalek Farahani (d. 1917) and Nezam Garrusi (d. 1900). The secretarial style is a simplified form of *shekasteh* which is faster to write and read, but less artistic. Long used in governmental and other institutions in Iran, *shekasteh* degenerated in the first half of the 20th century, but later again engaged the attention of calligraphers.[4][26] *Shekasteh* was used only in Iran and to a small extent in Afghanistan and Ottoman Empire. Its use in Afghanistan was different from the Persian norm and sometimes only as experimental devices (*tafannon*)[4][19]
 
Modern Nastaliq typography began with the invention of *Noori Nastaleeq* which was first created as a digital font in 1981 through the collaboration of Ahmed Mirza Jamil (as calligrapher) and Monotype Imaging (formerly Monotype Corp & Monotype Typography).[27] Although this employed over 20,000 ligatures (individually designed character combinations),[28] it provided accurate results and allowed newspapers such as Pakistan's *Daily Jang* to use digital typesetting instead of an army of calligraphers. It suffered from two problems in the 1990s: its non-availability on standard platforms such as Microsoft Windows or Mac OS, and the non-WYSIWYG nature of text entry, whereby the document had to be created by commands in Monotype's proprietary page description language.
 
In 1994, InPage Urdu, which is a functional page layout software for Windows akin to QuarkXPress, was developed for Pakistan's newspaper industry by an Indian software company Concept Software Pvt Ltd. It offered the *Noori Nastaliq* font licensed from Monotype Imaging. This font is still used in current versions of the software for Windows. As of 2009, InPage has become Unicode based, supporting more languages and the *Faiz Lahori Nastaliq* font with Kasheeda has been added to it along with compatibility with OpenType Unicode fonts.
 
Nastaliq is not separately encoded in Unicode as it is a particular style of Arabic script and not a writing system in its own right. Nastaliq letterforms are produced by choosing a Nastaliq font to display the text.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
